---
layout: post
title: Why I'm a crappy Ashtangi
slug: 2014-1-7-Trap
category: "Yoga"
---

This past October I began Ashtanga yoga through [Down Under Yoga's Mysore
Program](http://downunderyoga.com/classes/class-descriptions/#testimonials-6). There's a
methodology to Ashtanga that I  respect. 
Showing up to a room at 6AM every morning to start practicing a sequence that is
incrementally taught to you sounds like a very appealing and rewarding process,
and in the ongoing months, I've found it to be so.

That is, when I show up.

There's the problem, though. I like the idea of showing up, and learning the
entirety of primary series; but I also like my sleep. Tie into that the
cumulative dissapointment seen in my teacher's face after they haven't seen me
for a week, well; I've been having a hard time keeping up with it. I like the
practice after I do it, but sleepy-brain me wants to stay in bed, and late-night
me wants to stay up to midnight; which is not conducive to waking at 6. So,
there it is. In order to keep this going I need to sleep at a reasonable time,
but there are too many night-time things calling for my attention.

For now, I'm relagating myself to my bedroom, where I don't have all the
time-constraints of getting to Brookline and back before I get ready for my day;
and it's been working so far. My hope is to continue this for the rest of the
week and get back to Brookline next week, in part so that I can save some face
from my teacher, who is already one nod from ignoring me completely.
