---
layout: post
title: I got a new Job
slug: 2016-11-18-New_Job
category: "Work, Professional, MIT, Constant Contact"
---

So, previously I've written about Ashtanga yoga. I attempted to do a program in
neighboring Brookline, but it met with some internal resistance. I'm happy to say that
whatever blockers that were preventing me from practicing in the past have
subsided, and that I am practicing a full minimum of 4 mornings a week. It's an
important change for me, and I attribute the success to a number of things.
Primarily, I'll just say that a friend noticed one of my favorite yoga teachers
was starting an Astanga yoga progam near where I live in the
Cambridge/Somerville area. It's been wonderful, and while I still can't do lotus
pose, or other bendy postures like kormasana; I'm getting there. I'm just happy
to get onto my mat every morning and practice. The benefits to my body have been
really positive, I've felt myself growing stronger; and mentally I feel much
more capable of meeting the challenges of my day-to-day. It's that mental part
part I want to focus on. As you may notice from the title I'm
planning on writing about **Meditation** not yoga. I have a much greater history
with yoga, though. The two are pretty deeply intertwined for me, so you'll have
to excuse this digression for a little. 

My yoga teacher is great, and I super happy to be learning from him. One of the
first conversations I recalled having with them was of their experience doing a
10 day long sit at a Vipassan Meditation Center. So, after going to class every
morning for a month and a half, I decided to sign up for a 10 day medidtation
course in late August. I was accepted, and headed up to Canada once my classes were done.
The ten-day mediation course was taught at a Vipassan Meditation Center in the Quebec 
province of Canada. The experience was great, and I'm thinking that it's going
to become mandatory behavior for my closing of every subsequent summer in my 
life for several reasons, and I'll get to those; first I'd like to explain what the ten day course was like.

In order to complete a Vipassana course you go to a meditation center, (of which
there are many world-wide.) This in part helps you operate under a number of rules:
* *No electronic screens* - When you arrive at the meditation hall you give
   them your personal artifacts and place them in a safe. This means that you have to
   give up e-mail, twitter, facebook, or any other digital communication tools
   up for the duration of your 10 day course. Which is no small task in the modern world.

* *No communication* - Once the course begins, all students operated under a vow of
  silence. No talking was allowed unless it was to specific people running the course, and really only then if you are talking
  about your physical needs or about your progress with the meditation. The majority of
  people around me were not to be communicated with. And this definition of communication was pretty broad. Eye-contact can be a form
  of communication; so you that was off limits.

* *No touching* - Students must also refrain from touching each other. This was an
  interesting one. My body grews more sensitive, especially for a kinesthetic person
  like myself. I remember a person touched me while reaching for a bowl in the food
  line on the eight day. It was was the first time in a week that I had been touched,
  and it was startling.

* *Meals are provided* - All students were fed wholesome vegetarian meals for
  the duration of the 10 day course. The food provided was very
  delicious, and it also jump-started me back into a vegan diet. Which I had
  lazily given up when the stress of my final semester of my undergrad had come
  and gone.

* *Meditation Centers are away from cities* - This won't be a surprise to many
  people. Cities are very stimulating. That's one of the main reasons why I
  moved from Vermont to Boston over a decade ago. When you're trying to calm
  your mind, it is better to have less stimulation from your surroundings, so
  this particulary place I meditated in was between Ottawa and Montreal.

That was pretty much it, and I'm glad that these things were considered in the
location. It made focusing on the actualy meditation much easier. 

Now, the meditation regiment was very thorough. We had very strict schedules
which kept us quite busy. They went as follows:

| Time | Activity |
| ---- |:--------:|
| 4:00AM-4:30 | Wake-up/Shower |
| 4:30AM-6:30 | Meditate |
| 6:30AM-7:30 | Breakfast |
| 7:30AM-8:00 | Rest |
| 8:00AM-11:00 | Meditation |
| 11:00AM-12:00 | Lunch |
| 12:00PM-1:00 | Rest |
| 1:00PM-4:00 | Meditation |
| 4:00PM-5:00 | Dinner |
| 5:00PM-5:30 | Rest |
| 5:30PM-8:00 | Meditation |
| 8:00PM-9:00 | Lesson/Meditation |

So if you count that all up, there was 11 hours of meditation every day. My yoga
practice requires me to be aware of my body, and this got in the way for a bit at
the beginning of the course as I fixated on my posture. It wasn't until the 2nd or 3rd day that I could
let enough of that go so that I could work on the other stuff that I needed to. Once it
was done I started getting into the meditation. Saying that it was easy is
entirely correct, but it was necessary. There was quite a
bit of emotional cruft that I had put aside during my studies.
Having the days I did really helped me look at it, dig into it, and get closer
to letting that go. On top of that, I was able to get myself together so that I could present my best self during what is
the busiest period of time for my job at MIT.
